# memory-game
Memory game coded with JavaScript - by Itziar de Pedro Sarasola

GOAL: players choose a level and have to flip the cards and find the matching pairs before time runs out.

UX/UI DESIGN: the menu screen includes the title, a high-score table, and 3 buttons for the user to select the difficulty: easy, hard or expert level (triggered by clicking on them or pressing 1, 2 or 3 on the keyboard). When a level is selected, a board is shown, the number of cards in it depends on the level chosen. When the game starts, all cards face down, the timer starts running, and the flip counter is set to 0. The player can flip a card by clicking on it with the mouse or selecting it with the keyboard arrows (selected card has a red border) and pressing enter. Only the 2 cards can be clicked at the same time. If these match, they stay with the front side up until all the cards are paired and if there is still time left, the player wins. If they don’t match, they hide again. If the time runs out, a gameover text appears. If the player wins, the game will ask them for their name and record this and their time into an sql database whose values are shown in the main menu of the game as a highscore table. The players are ranked judging by their times (scores) and this updates every time a game is finished. The server side consists of the json, ajax, server and handler files.

DESIGNED FOR ACCESSIBILTY: the code follows a functional programming style. JSLint was used to ensure the code is clear, concise and clean. The game was coded for accessibility by using the axe extension and the builtin accessibility tab on Firefox. The axe extension alerted me of the need of landmarks (which I included in the html) and naming all the images/cards. The accessibility section threw 2 main problems: that clickable elements had to be focusable (thus I put animations when hovering over the buttons and a red border when selecting the cards) and that all elements should be able to be accessed by the keyboard (so, I coded the game so that it can be used with the mouse, with the keyboard or both at the sa
